Lamba School versus the (.edu) World!
I have come to believe from my life experience that all learning is ‘self-learning.’ The idea that one is a vessel that can be passively filled with knowledge by another is an ancient but broken metaphor. Yes, the teacher is involved in the process, indeed a good teacher can be an amazing facilitator of learning, as can a community, but ultimately the buck stops with me. What I do  determines what I learn. Lambda with its non-traditional approach seems to emphasize that self-determination and will as a core value.
Finally, with the heavy integration of soft skills, career training, Lambda is all about getting a job. A college education may or may not provide the skills to obtain employment in one's chosen field but who knows? Often the students themselves don't know what they want from their university experience, or have other conflicts and issues that confound their academic and / or professional goals. In a goal oriented program such as Lambda, the students goals are clear and specific from the beginning. Thus the overall success rate may be higher.
 	Of course, there are still benefits to a traditional 4 year college that can't be replicated in a bootcamp style program. The length of time spent in school allows young people to be exposed to diverse experiences, and just to grow up a bit.  They will have more social and cultural experiences to supplement their chosen areas of study. They will have opportunities to explore side roads and dead ends-- perhaps an elective course will lead to discovery of a life’s calling. 
In my case, I have done those things, and really just desire to transform myself as a person and a professional so that I can better support my family. The technical and industry knowledge is what I am truly interested in. 

Growth Mindset

After watching the TED Talk with Carol Dweck explain the difference between growth and fixed mindset. Describe an example from your own life where you’ve had a fixed mindset. Then describe an example where you’ve had a growth mindset. 

At its core the contrast between growth mindset and  fixed mindset is analogous to the glass empty / glass half full metaphor. They start with polar opposite orientations towards the world, and one's own experiences, including learning. Going deeper involves focusing on the learning processes and strategies we use to solve problems and acquire knowledge. With the internet connecting us to vast knowledge, we need to look beyond memorization and recall of mere facts, of applications of rote algorithms. The facts are just a google search away, and modern problems are intractable to single pass reasoning. We  need to develop strategy, persistence, self awareness and optimism to grow our abilities. 
	To take a personal example, I often vacillate between both mindset in my personal and professional domains. It; very easy for me to apply a growth mindset to learning any physical skill or process to a high standard. Sourcing knowledge online and in person, I have taught myself how to roast coffee, bake bread, and recently how to make neapolitan style pizza. Let me give you another example of how I switched from one to the other. A long time ago I went to Marine Corps boot camp, at 19, a tiny bit older and, I thought, a whole lot smarter than everyone else. 2 months later during the rifle marksmanship training unit, I was frustrated and disappointed in myself. Despite my SAT scores, and my prior experience shooting at old TVs in the woods, I was barely passing the qualification, earning the much reviled ‘pizza box’ marksmanship badge. The highest level, Expert, was held to be the unofficial standard for the service whose mottos include ‘every Marine a rifleman.’ Needless to say sniper training was not in my immediate future.  About a year later, as a newly minted Marine at my new unit, the yearly re-qualification was about to happen, and I knew I only had one shot at getting rid of the pizza box. The range staff were there to ensure that all qualified, but they didn't care if you did it by a lot or a little. In a quiet moment before going downrange, I made a decision- I would not let my past mistakes or achievements hold me back. I had been instructed- by the best- and it had worked for countless others. I still had my bootcamp marksmanship instructions in a waterproof binder  and one thing jumpe off the page at me- the acronym ‘BRASS-F’ is a mnemonic for the entire process of firing a rifle at the range. Breathe, Relax, Aim, Stop, Squeeze - Follow through. I ‘knew’ all the other instructions but this process is what mediates the how you translate from intention to a hole in the bullseye. From the time that I loaded the first magazine to the last ‘all clear;’ I put the past behind me, trusted my training, and just focused on the process and the feedback that was constructive to improve the next shot. At the end of the day I had earned my expert qualification- but more importantly I had proven to myself that I had the capacity to grow beyond my failures.
	Coming back to the present, I think that growth is the whole reason I am at Lambda. I have had an interesting career so far, working in a variety of roles, but recently old demons have come back to haunt me- that degree that I didn’t finish, the startup that didnt pop, the too many years getting comfortable and complacent. I admit that when I try to look at myself from an outside perspective, it’s remarkably fixed and negative. I know that part of this is objective reality, and part is just the wrong mindset. This is why I chose to attend Lambda, even though it will make my life hell for the next year or so. I think it's human nature to rise to an appropriate challenge, and Lambda definitely will be a big one. I believe that if I complete the training it will address the mindset as well as the objective reality along the way.. I also think it is a really cool business model, and love that I’m participating at an early stage in something that feels like it is really part of the Silicon Valley technology scene that I am surrounded by daily, but not yet a part of. 



